Technology affects the way individuals communicate, learn, and think. It helps society and determines how
people interact with each other on a daily basis. Technology plays an important role in society today. It has positive
and negative effects on the world and it impacts daily lives. We are living in an era where technological advances
are common. The internet and cell phones are some examples. However, with technological advances, there’s a
downside to it all.
One aspect of technology that has had a great impact on society is how it affects learning. It’s made learning
more interactive and collaborative, this helps people better engage with the material that they are learning and
have trouble with. Also, it gets you better access to resources. With the creation of the internet, it gives us access to
information at a twenty-four-hour rate and you have access to almost anything online. In addition, it allows
students to get work done easier. Students can take quizzes and exams more easily, and teachers being able to hold
online classes can be very effective. It also expands the boundaries of the classroom, encouraging self-paced
learning. People can access learning through YouTube and social media. This helps students learn better than sitting
down for lectures and reading from textbooks. These technological advancements made learning more fun and
convenient.
Another way technology has impacted society is through communication, how we talk and communicate with
one another worldwide. Technology brought many new methods of electronic communication. For example, there
are emails, social networking, you can facetime a person that lives on the other side of the world, and here’s video
conferencing where you can have conferences electronically. Lastly, the technological advancements that were
made within the health industry have helped keep people safe and healthy. There are many innovate apps on
phones that although people to watch their weight, how many calories they intake, heart rate and other health
properties any time of the day. There’s increased accessibility of treatment available, there’s the change in
healthcare that adds benefits for the elderly, and hospitals using advanced technology within their surgical rooms.
However, studies show that mobile communication affects people in a negative way when it comes to being
sociable and making face-to-face contact. Mobile technology can decrease communication and relations between
people. There’s less personal time, where you find that you don’t enough time for yourself because you’re always in
contact with someone. Also, it can be distracting from your schoolwork. There is also loss of privacy, because
anyone can find you anywhere, at any time of the day. In conclusion, all of these things impact how humans act
today. Without technological advancements, our way of life would not be as complex. Technological influences
shape the way humans act today.